This robot was the product of that research I conducted while writing my master's thesis. The goal of this research was to develop a walking rover using the minimum number of actuators, while still retaining the ability to produce a variety of foot-tip trajectories, making the robot move in various ways. Having already built a walking robot (Schvaan) which had 12 custom built actuators, I was well aware of the difficulty of controlling and cost share of actuators in a project. My thesis research was an attempt at exploring the versatility that could be achieved with a simple design.
The walker is based on a eight-bar linkage mechanism with two input cranks. The relative phase angle between these two cranks is responsible for generating a variety of foot trajectories, each with a characteristic stepping height and distance. I designed a custom transmission system to control a total of six legs, using only three total actuators for the rover. Actuator A was coupled with the upper cranks on the left and right set of legs, actuator B and C were connected to the lower cranks on the right and left respectively. Using independent actuators for driving the lower crank allowed me to configure a different phase offset on the left and right set of legs, making each set of legs follow a different trajectory. After the phase was configured, the actuators would rotate synchronously at equal and opposite angular velocities to produce the configured trajectory. Configuring unequal phase angles causes legs on the either side to step a different distance (or in opposite directions), gradually turning the rover.
For smooth and accurate motion of the eight bar linkage, I used precision-ground grooved clevis pins at all pivot points. This ensured that the planarity of the kinematic linkage was retained; the foot moved smoothly within the plane of the mechanism but had high rigidity perpendicular to it. This negatively affected steering performance, as the foot tips in contact with the ground would be expected to deflect normal to the mechanism plane when steering, but the rigidity of the eight bar linkage did not allow that. To remedy that, I inserted compressible washers at all pivot locations between the mechanism links, which made the mechanism compliant. This allowed for a passive DOF normal to the mechanism plane.
Currently, the rover is capable of walking straight (forwards and backwards) as well as steering about a center inside or outside its footprint. Robots using planar mechanisms have not shown the ability to steer, which has limited their popularity so far. Thus, while this rover is capable of only very primitive motions, it still shows promise of versatility emerging from simplicity.
